---
title: Old watch magic items/drugs
enableToc: 
tags:
  - gdoc
---
**Drugs: 

1. There is a drug that temporarily pulls your soul from your body into the astral plane. Some of these drugs are meant to let you travel around in this state which can be useful but is also extremely dangerous if you don’t know how to find your way back. 
2. Drugs can sometimes be like maps that lead you directly to certain parts of the dream world. Mages will spike drugs that will lead the users to a place where they can inspect or even steal their minds. Others lead to nice places.
3. Tame species of emotion vampire bread store and release specific types of emotions and even memories. Used therapeutically and recreationally and as a nonviolent form of incapacitation. Some are capable of releasing the emotion back to their owners or even redirecting them to someone else. Someone who has lived for a hundred years or more could walk around with a very fat one of these that is capable of releasing and inflicting a lifetime's worth of pain and sorrow on anyone on command.
4. Water from an ancient glacier that allows the user to see multiple possibilities playing out in the water fractals when dropped in their eye. Similar to an insect with a compound eye, only with each image showing different possibilities. This can be overwhelming and so mages have figured out ways to distill and refreeze slices of the water into the lenses of glasses that will show them more particular outcomes one at a time. There is a monster which takes over its victims bodies and impersonates them, but it doesn’t acquire their memories, at least not immediately. It keeps up a good illusion though by keeping their victims mind in a dormant dreamstate, using the glacier water to show the dossicle mind different possibilities to see how it would react and then imitate that.
5. A liquid which takes away your distanced vision when dropped in the eyes, making everything far away appear blurry, while everything closer is shown in fine detail as if being held under a magnifying glass. One can even see subatomic particles if they focus on a single point for about ten minutes, but this can have severely detrimental long term effects on the user's vision.
6. Sap drank in order to commune with the ancestors. Once at birth or during childhood, again in adulthood,a third time with old age, and a fourth time when it is time to go.


### Items and entities:

1. There is a dessert that makes all magic inert. The sand is highly valued by mages and mage hunters alike for its unique properties. Spells fizzle out when this sand is thrown over them, and a mage steeped in magic inhaling the sand may not only be temporarily sapped of their abilities, but also paralyzed. Glass made from these sands are used to store particularly volatile potions. Entire spells can be frozen in a moment in time such as right before their effect goes off, stuck in glass until it’s shattered and time resumes, effectively creating a way to store and sell spells. There are many glass blowers trained in these arts and also in the forgery of these arts. Be sure you’re actually getting a spell and not just some fancy colors or a dragon's eye that looks “pretty real” to you. Spell guns have also been created with these sands. A spell is frozen into a cylinder of glass shaped like a bullet. The nail is loaded into the barrel, and when the trigger is pulled the hammer releases, shattering the glass and releasing the spell.
2. There’s this creature that produces a compound similar to this drug that temporarily pulls your soul from your body into the astral plane,  except the creature's version keeps a close tether on the soul so that it cannot wander. It is a parasitic creature that collects memories that will be useful for other creatures, and gives them access to those memories in times of need in exchange for their own memories. One could let this parasite temporarily knock you spirit out of your body and make you do kung fu or ballet while you, in exchange for your memories of how to play the piano or some such thing.
3. Certain entities only exist around the living, and move between them. Sometimes through their senses, sight for example. If the entity is in my mind it can travel to yours if we make eye contact, then it's stuck with you until you and another living thing look at eachother. Sometimes great evil beings will be reduced to this until they can acquire more power. There is a man who had one of these most powerful, evil entities attached to him, and so he sealed himself up in a tomb with no other living thing a thousand years ago. He still sits there in the darkness, waiting for the light, for the entity will not let him die.
4. Sword that will always tell you the most profitable position to take in a fight.
5. Candles that invoke the spirits of the bees that made it. As the wax burns, the bees that contributed to it fly around made of fire. This can be used in a particularly destructive spell that simultaneously documents writing as it is being immolated, meaning that someone might burn a library down to steal its knowledge.
6. The skulls of once great leaders, carved with sigils at birth that would record and echo a faint signal and frozen in glass. Skulls with these sigils have many magical uses.
7. Dream Totems or idols: People who travel to the dream world usually have very little control over it and do so in their sleep. People who travel there physically usually do so with even less control, often against their will. Traveling to the dream world is often place or condition based, but some are able to travel there in physical form at any time of their choosing using totems. To witness them doing so is dangerous and risks pulling you in with them, only you won't have an anchor and will likely die or be forever lost. When you fall asleep, your body serves as your anchor, when you walk into the dream world, often the place serves as your anchor. Those who slip in and out must make their own. The nature of the totem is highly unique to the individual and must be crafted by their hand. One’s physical form must traverse an utter void to reach the dream realm. This is not just a void of space, but also time and reality, and therefore its very existence is detrimental to human consciousness. The function of the totem is two fold: 1st to sustain the matrix of your mind and body through the void to the other side, 2nd to keep the void from eating parts of our physical world. When a traveler's body leaves this world without an anchor, the void rushes in to fill the space they occupied. Everyone will forget the traveler ever existed, and it can even be used to further sustain the void in our world essentially working like a bomb. Void occultists will detonate themselves for this very purpose knowing that they won’t even be remembered as a martyr. When a traveler leaves with a functional totem however, it acts as a vessel for the void, both containing it in this word, and working to send you across the void. Your physical and mental body as you understand them will be immediately destroyed during the passage, but the vessel containing void in our world leaves a little empty space in the void for the travelers conscious code to be broadcasted to the dream world where it can reconstitute easily as the dream world is susceptible to ideas and naturally coalesces form around them. Then the dream beams the travelers consciousness back across the void into the physical world where the pop of the void returning back to its realm creates enough energy for the travelers idol to reconstitute their physical form. Alternatively if the traveler has another means of reconstituting their form, they can use that boom of energy for anything… Like a bomb; bliping in and out of existence, burning through physical forms. Anybody who sees your idol suck another of your vessels in, also gets sucked in, and every time you do it, you also get to create a big explosion. Totems are like Plato's ideal forms. Generally one is only capable of making their own totem, and only then with great practice. For any idea you can come up with however, there is a dream. And so totem carving used to be quite the art of bringing dreams and spirits to life, but since Sorvolds' immortality experiments, it’s almost impossible to not call mimics into this world pretending to be whatever concept you were trying to actualize. There are many types of totems, and not all are meant to be filled. Sometimes an entity is sent to the dream world forever so that a little piece of void can be kept and used in psyche form. This is how emotional vampires feed. There is a part of them in both worlds, one here to sap the emotions, one there to manifest and consume them. The more emotion they send over to the other side, the more powerful the void becomes here, creating an increasingly powerful differentia, pulling more and more through which is what facilitates their growth. There is an “elfish” totem leading scholars to believe that may be what the cause of their downfall was. Only individuals have been personified in Idol form, but if one were to develop the science to bring into existence a totem for an entire species, they could all be simultaneously pulled through into the dream world as if they never really existed at all. This influences a lot of the archmages' goals of personifying themselves, the dragons, and various other entities and concepts. I don’t think it’s really possible (for them at the very least) to actually personify a dragon or a species in totality, but their attempts would surely be fascinating. Anyway the “Elvish” Totem was really an ogre symbol, but all who knew of it were slain, and so it became an object of void, but a void full of potential unlike the volatile hungry kind. When historians discover the Idol, their dreams facilitate its birth, and it takes form in the absences, the blank spaces of their brain where history has to stretch itself especially thin to cover the holes of their ignorance. And so the dream of the ‘elf’ is born.
8. Worry stone like heirlooms passed down for generations. The stones were smooth when they were first acquired and possessed minimal levels of magic, but after generations of rubbing, a divot has grown in the stone creating a pool of stored generational power.
9. Ornate glass bottles which contain the essence of books for those who know how to access them. (Sometimes this involves brewing a potion and drinking it from the bottle, but methods vary) Scribes are known to carry many of these bottles on them at any given time.

Myths and Miscellaneous:

- Milk from a certain cow that is advertised as never going bad. The thing is it’ll still sour and go bad, it just tastes great. This false advertisement has led to a lot of deaths.
- Historians also believe that there was an “Ancient race of cyclops” actually on old dream magic culture that would drill a single hole in the forehead to create a magical “Third eye” that is always closed and sleeping, to see into the dream world.**