---
title: The Old Gods
enableToc: 
tags:
  - gdoc
---
The oldest gods are those that hold true for all life from the bottom of the ocean to the highest mountaintops, that speak to the experience of the tiniest microbe as much as they do the mightiest dragon. 

The first god was dirt, because it is the first thing that any living being must come into contact with and know. All are born of dirt, and all return to it in death. The gods of life and death that are oft worshiped in human society are all pale reflections of this true deep god at the heart of life itself. 

For a long time swirling through the primordial mists we could only perceive others. All was dirt, and all we saw was dirt. There was no conscious concept of self, only the ability to perceive the world. Why would we focus on our finite selves rather than the infinite universe? And so we went about our lives like clockwork; obediently playing our parts while watching the greater machine of the universe tick by all around us. We were capable of true appreciation then. But this time came to an end when we first saw our reflection in the vast endless waters. We saw ourselves for the first time, that we were another cog in the machine, not simply an objective viewer. We discovered that we were limited, yet had more agency than we had imagined. With agency came power, but we were never able to appreciate the world around us in the same way. We could no longer simply see another's soul by looking into their eyes. Whenever we looked there all we saw was a reflection of ourselves in the shape of another person.

The second god was thus reflection, a core hallmark of the continuity of life – reflecting but altering the idea that came before. This continuity manifests in the splitting of microbes to reproduce themselves but changed, and the process of conscious thought altering and adapting ideas it has observed before. Humanoids understand reflection through mirrors, but the fractal of reflecting concept is much deeper than that, and even those without eyes can feel it in their minds. 

With the ability to reflect, to know oneself and one’s finite nature, came the desire not to end. We learned that we could grow and multiply in some environments, and that we would fail and wither in others. We learned to avoid the things that would end us, and take comfort in those that nourished. 

The third god was thus pain. The discomfort we felt in the presence of the bringers of our demise was what kept us alive. Perhaps not all life in the early primordial mists felt or experienced that god, but all that survived did. Pain and discomfort was the first god we chose for ourselves, a power natural and inherent to mortals. 

For a time, these first three were the only gods of the world, or the only gods that ruled or cared for mortals. For there were other things in this universe deeper and more true than life itself, and these things could perhaps rightly be considered gods as well. Older still than the fleeting gods of life were presence and absence, matter and void. These entities ever chased each other in a circle from the dawn of time, and that chase is probably what gave birth to life itself.

Life is a thing of matter, connected to it through dirt and silt, and for a long time knew nothing of the void. But when life began to feel pain, to avoid its end, a great shifting occurred. First, life had once existed in a world of pure blissful concept and dream, matter and concept were not separate. Even still, their separation remains an illusion of life, but it is one that we have chosen to chisel into the very foundation of our existence. When we saw ourselves and chose to protect our mortal forms we severed our physical beings from the great flow of concept and dream, only accessing it as it when our minds were weak, and our guards let down. Our sleep was once full of dreams, and our waking world as well if we spent the time to focus. But a hollowness, and absence began to set across the land like the rising sun; An absence that dimmed the dreams, and sent them running for the safety of darkness and night, in slumber and in our dreams. But the void persisted even there, and we would wake to find that we could no longer remember our dreams. It was as if there was an empty space between us and them, and in the place where we had dreamt the void found space to insert its whispers. It told us of endings, true endings; not being recycled. It told us of entropy and the heat death of the universe. It told us of how cold and empty and vast space was. It told us how far away all those stars really were. It told us how our own sun was a star among many which would someday die and go dark. It asked us who we were before we were born, and who we would become after.

But being things of matter, mortals could never truly know the void until they became it. Some sought the true void, true oblivion. Some found it. But in doing so these beings ceased to be mortals, and their worship of the true void could not create a mortal god. The true meaning of the void’s whispers was so beyond mortal comprehension that another thing, a thing of matter, had to be created to store the image of that vast oblivion. That thing was fear.

The fourth god of the world was thus fear. Fear is both lesser and greater than the other old gods, for it is but a mask worn by something far older and deeper than they. 
