---
title: On the Self-Given Name for the Ancient Elves
enableToc: 
tags:
  - gdoc
---
This document is missing a few images.
- https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iJMUG12PaWnDL08qv7-hvGL-Zm-ZUfZpoWllyTgLD3M/edit

---
### A Note From the Author
This document consists of three distinct parts. The first pages were written some decades ago, and express regret and fear for the impact that the findings herein would have upon my career. That fear would lead to a still greater regret – My conviction to publish was eroded by myriad excuses until it was no more. The manuscript was confined to a forgotten drawer in my ever growing offices. I ascended to eminence as a scholar of the Elvish languages just as I had dreamed (helped in no small part by the knowledge of a secret that the others who might have known would not admit). I have left this manuscript in its original form. Though it does not meet my current standards of quality for my work, I hope the reader will find in them the understanding of the urgency of this project and excuse the many small inaccuracies and meandering nature of the argument presented therein.

I have instead turned my attention in the little time that I have to compose the second part of this piece, for I believe my findings here are of far more general interest than only scholars of linguistics. After the fall of Mnem and the cryptic communications of the Ogrish rebels, it is clear to me that we are on the precipice of a terrible catastrophe. This second part consists of an essay addressed to the great archmages that we serve in the hopes that in their wisdom they might avoid this impending catastrophe, but is written to be read and understood by layman and scholar alike. 

The third part is the least critical, and of the least interest to the majority of my readers. Over the years I have collected several items of supporting evidence for the claims made in the first part, as well as some related documentation that led me to the conclusions made in the second. This third part is an appendix of these various documents so that a serious scholar might see, in spite of their prior assumptions, the sheer preponderance of evidence for these seemingly outlandish claims.

Finally, I simply wish to apologize, though in my remaining days I will never be able to atone. If I could step back in time and know that the coming catastrophe might be averted if I had simply published in honesty that which I knew was true I would do so in a heartbeat. No career is worth the world. 

- Sir Malo Holstoff

### Part 1: On the Self-Given Name for the Ancient Elves
It is with a heavy heart that I lift my pen today to bring a permanent end to my own credibility and career. During my recent stay abroad with the scholars in Mnem I happened upon a strange foreign word totally irrelevant (or so I thought at the time) to the object of our study: Xwauga. The word lived on a forgotten page of my journal accompanied by hastily scribbled notes recording to the best of my recollection its pronunciation (discussed in further detail below) for several months until I returned home to the college at Liev in Atnia. With the aid of the comprehensive archives of linguistic scholarship of my alma mater, I set to the task of satiating my idle curiosity as to the word’s meaning and origin. Though I found satisfactory answers to my initial questions, they only deepened my confusion and curiosity. And so my investigation into unknown or obscure parallels between the world’s languages continued for nearly a year. Completing this inquiry, I believe I have pieced together a lost truth so momentous that I cannot help but imagine that in my own lifetime I will be regarded from this day forth as a madman and a fraud. I pray only for vindication in the annals of history.

I went to Mnem on a mission of intellectual exchange, orchestrated I presume through some diplomatic accord between that country and my own. Mnem, for all its wonderful advancements in the science of magic, suffers from a distinct lack of serious linguistic scholars – A lack it must address when seeking to augment its scientific understanding of the magical arts with the notes and lost techniques of the ancient Elves, known only to us through the carvings left behind in their ruined keeps. It is this accepted archaeological fact – that an ancient magical species commonly called ‘Elves’ long ago built a vast empire that spanned the world over – that these ill-fated pages call to question. I do not deny the existence of these ancient ruins, nor suggest that they sprouted from the ground of their own volition. My hope is that upon completing this document you will understand the true nature of these ancient beings so radically differs from all of our past assumptions that you will hesitate to associate with them the stories and folkloric term ‘Elf’ to which we are so accustomed. 

I will spare you the full details of my expedition into the jungles of Mnem; the findings have been published in great detail elsewhere. I draw your attention only to a scene near the beginning of my journey. I had only just met up with a retinue from the expedition in the nearest town a few days prior and we were getting acquainted with one another as we trekked back to their camp by the ruins, flanked by a pear of great gray-skinned ogres that they had brought for carrying the baggage.

Ogres are everywhere in Mnem, it is one of the first things that an outsider notices. Towering near twice the height of a fully grown human and at least that difference of proportion again in width. Their protruding jaws betray a row of sharp front teeth flanked by vicious looking canines in an apparent perpetual sneer (though I have since learned that Ogre expressions cannot be read in quite the same way as human ones). The leathery foreheads of the Ogres of Mnem are each marked with a small surgical scar – the relic of an operation that according to my companions helps them to remain civilized and even does something to dull that species’ chronic headaches. The average Atnian may witness one or two such beings in their entire lifetime. A few successfully manage to obey The Chancellor’s law, and reside in the great cities. Still others live in the mountains, though these are rarely seen by humans as they are often attacked on sight in fear of the voracious hunger and destruction that they bring in legends – 
The primary source of knowledge most Atnians have of them. 

Still unsettled by their presence, I was striving to not pay them too much mind and engaging in some friendly scholarly sparring with one of the younger among my companions. The debate was over the correct pronunciation for the word that the Elves gave to their own people. Depending on the era, precise location, and even individual author Elvish carvings often render words differently, but the most common variation of the runes follows:


	
It might seem absurd to debate the correct pronunciation of a millennia-old carving of a disappeared race. Indeed, the argument was more a greeting ritual among fellow scholars than genuine attempt of arriving at a concrete conclusion, but there is more to go on to answer this question than the uninitiated might imagine. The most commonly accepted pronunciation of these characters is “Hweva” meaning the plural “Elves”, with “Hwev” as the singular “Elf”. This was the position taken up by my young friend. 

Nearly a century of scholarship supports this hypothesis. It is undisputed among linguists that every system of phonetic writing in the world can trace its origins back to these original Elvish runes. There is simply too much evidence of the relation between certain characters and sounds cross-linguistically to ignore, and while in an individual language a particular character might differ from the pattern, there is a strong correlation between the sounds expressed by various letters in all languages that bear similarities to the letters in ancient Elvish. A more reaching claim that has garnered no small amount of attention is that the ancient Elves are the inventors of language itself. While more hotly debated, the specter of this particular suggestion has always hung over the perspective under which the letters were analyzed, leading scholars to assume pronunciations familiar to modern human languages.

This forms the backbone of the more recent criticism that the “Hweva” pronunciation has garnered, which is the position that I took in our friendly confrontation. First and foremost, recent scholarship has all but completely discredited the idea that Elves could have originated all spoken language. It has been shown that all sapient species – Humans, Orcs, Goblins, and Ogres – Will form rudimentary language when surrounded by other such creatures even when they have not been taught. This established, several facts are worth analyzing in greater detail.

It is important to understand that the written language of the ancient Elves is heavily intertwined with their alchemy and understanding of the basic elements of the world. While the language would undergo several iterations over the course of hundreds of years in its transition between hieroglyphs, syllabary, and finally alphabet, the meaning of the basic alchemical symbols that form the backbone of many of the language’s letters would remain the same. The pictographic way of writing the language never fell fully out of favor, and it remained common until the sudden unexplained end of the Elvish civilization to stylize phonetic words in such a way as to encode additional pictographic meanings. Consider the elemental connotations of the following two characters:

Water

Earth

The first of these letters is commonly assumed to correspond with the sound ‘v’, given that its near identical cross-linguistic use. It was the respectable Sir Vonsbourn Banksherry who first pointed out that the second most common spelling of this word for the Elvish people in the ancient runes replaces the symbol for water with the one for earth. He argues that, for contemporary readers, the pronunciation was likely known. Thus the choice of character was likely a matter of style or context of use, and it would be equally likely to be pronounced “Hwega” as “Hweva”.

My new friend, of course, balked at this suggestion. “Hwev” sounded closer to our current word for “Elf”, and you could see how our word could have developed from humans’ personal contact with these ancient people, of which there was some evidence. This point was not wrong, but I believed it served as flimsy evidence given the prevalence of linguistic changes throughout history. There also was nothing to suggest necessarily that our myths of a great race of tall and beautiful elves would be etymologically related to the words the creatures used for themselves. 

It was about at this point in the conversation that I heard the alien utterance “Xwauga”. It came not from my conversation partner, but one of the Ogres who had spent the journey up to this moment in utter silence. “X” is used as a placeholder for a sound that is not present in our language. If one has heard the guttural “r”s they use in Lekvia and some localities of Jesparch they might know the place in the throat that the sound occurs, almost like one is clearing out flem. Rather than an “r” the shape of the sound might be said to be closer to an “h”. The rest may be faithfully phonetically transcribed using the method I have chosen above, though nothing but personal experience could familiarize one with an Ogre’s unique lumbering cadence and style of pronunciation. 

My companion appeared not to notice this interruption and attempted to carry on our debate, but something in that utterance captured my whole attention. I cannot explain the reason, but the word washed over me as though frozen water had been poured over my head. Perhaps some part of me sensed the significance of those sounds. I badgered the Ogre to elaborate on his interjection, but he ignored me, feigning (I think) inability to comprehend my   language. Thus the word found its way into my journal and was forgotten about in the pursuit of the true object of our expedition.

By the time I had recovered my energies from my journey and set about flipping through my notes for any loose ends from my travels to explore, I had entirely forgotten the sense of urgency and foreboding that had accompanied the page titled “Xwauga”. Instead it seemed like an idle, simple question to occupy my mind while I prepared myself for the next great project of research. I strolled lazily through the familiar walls of books searching for dictionaries of the Oggrish languages, a subject in which I had never before taken any special interest.

Immediately, I was beset with difficulties. It seemed I was not alone in taking only a passing interest in the languages of Ogres. I was disappointed to find that many of the texts that were available fell far below the standards of modern academic rigor. Many of them only addressed Ogrish languages for incidental reasons, and thus did not treat them with any particular care or specificity. For example, there are several texts on cross-linguistic similarities and differences that take the effort to survey Ogres for a deeper understanding of how languages relate to the ancient elves. These difficulties only served to pique my interest.

After days of perusing these old tomes I stumbled upon my first clue in the footnote of a text surveying the relation between several languages in Mnem: The word “xwauda” (rendered “hwaada” by the author, but the pronunciation notes convinced me that it was similar and perhaps related to my “xwauga”. This was apparently the word used by these Ogres to describe their own language. I thought to myself then that the root of this word might in fact relate to an old word ogres had for the elves, and perhaps supported the idea that Ogres learned their language from them.

It was shortly after that that I was struck by something curious: In none of these texts had I found a single ogrish word for “Elf”. Instead, quotes from Ogres in their own languages would often have them repeating whatever word was given to them by their human interviewer on the subject. At this observation the sense of foreboding that made this casual curiosity feel somehow urgent began to return. Though I could not have explained why at the time, I spent many sleepless nights in the library from that moment on. Try as I might, I could not find a single word in any ogrish language for “Elf”.

Defeated, I turned back to searching for words that might be related to this “xwauga”. The answer here is all too obvious if one only thinks phonetically, but I was so set on my theory that this must be an attempted pronunciation of the old Elvish runes that the simple fact was obscured for me. The truth revealed itself in a trader’s almanac from before the unification of Atnia. As I was flitting through the old tome for any references to ogres I found a note in the margins from a previous owner of the book “note: the pronunciation of several words on this page is outdated. Ogres today have ceased to pronounce many instances of ‘xw’, especially at the outset of common words.” The answer was then obvious even to me: Our word “Ogre” is derived from their word “Auga”. Thus “Xwauga” could only be an archaic word for “Ogre”. 

The mystery was solved, and yet the sense of tension would not leave me. Perhaps I had hallucinated it, but I had been certain that “Xwauga” had been in reply to our conversation about elves. All the same, it could not be that the ancient Elves and our modern Ogres were yet the same people. It must have been some sort of delusion or misplaced pride that had spurred the utterance. Intellectually I was satisfied with this explanation, but in my heart there was only unease. I turned my attention back to my regular studies.

Only a few days later I woke up in a cold sweat. Pride. I laughed out loud in a deranged, humorless sort of way. It certainly was prideful for us to think that elves were tall, beautiful, slender variants on ourselves. Our ancestors. Especially when there had been a much simpler explanation all along. Though I suspect the reader has by now guessed this conclusion, I will withhold stating it directly. I expect the reader should first like to see the full extent of the evidence.

I rushed back to the library, this time to once again reexamine the arguments for the pronunciation of. Of these runes, the last two are relatively uncontroversial. “A” and “V” remain intact as characters in many languages, and always correspond to the same or similar pronunciations. As mentioned previously, “V” for the Elves could have sometimes been used interchangeably with their rune for “G”. The other two proved a little more complex.

This character is commonly translated to “E”, but that is rooted more in convention than reason. From the cases where the letter is used to replace other runes where we are more confident of the sound it appears that it can be used to represent almost any vowel. One common hypothesis is that it is used to express an elongated vowel or a cluster of vowels, sometimes used in elvish for emphasis, and other times as a distinguishing aspect of a word. I will admit this as the weakest element of my argument, but my hope is that the reader will see given the context that “au” is a perfectly reasonable reading of this character.

Finally, we come to this enigmatic letter, one that is strewn throughout the ancient Elvish language. Like “V”, it holds a special alchemical significance, being a combination of the symbols for earth or water, it can be read as “mud”, or the very concept of alchemy itself. There are a variety of theories about its pronunciation, but it is commonly rendered as “hw”, which resembles the use of this character in many languages today. This connection is further strengthened by the elvish roots for earth and water, which are often rendered as “ha” and “wa” respectively. Now, a curious detail from my research into the languages of ogres. The guttural “x” as I have transcribed it is frequently rendered in the human tongues as “h”, a sound many authors believe to be more familiar to our languages. I hope the final reading has not escaped the reader. That a valid phonetic interpretation of is “xwauga”, an archaic term for Ogre. 

This hints that not only might Ogres consider themselves as of the same people as the ancient Elves, they may hold greater claim than any others, knowing through their oral histories the correct pronunciation of these words. I would now like to take the time to highlight several small things known to the reader that they may wish to reconsider: No skeleton of an Elf has yet been discovered, their height, proportion, and nature has only been guessed by their ruins and the size of their chairs and tools. We might ask, if they are tall, slender humans as depicted by the great artists of history such as Zanefos: Why were their thrones so wide? The ruins of the ancient Elves are frequently surrounded by tribes of nomadic Ogres, who have frequently defended these ruins with violence. In no ogrish language (to the author’s knowledge) is there a word for “Elf”, despite them frequently residing in the immediate vicinity of these ruins. 

Now, I will state the case of this article: The hypothetical ancient race of Elves are in fact the Ogres we know today. If the reader is convinced, they may share the same questions that have caused me such unease. Why did the Ogres abandon their cities? Why do we not see Ogres wielding the same magic discussed in their carvings? What will the retribution of this great and powerful species be for our disrespect?

### Part 2: A Plea for Peace

In the interest of time I shall treat the notion that there was no race of ancient Elves, and that the great mages and civilizers of the ancient past were in fact Ogres, as established fact. The skeptical reader may refer to the appendices for further evidence to this effect. The aim of this article is only this: To prevent the catastrophe that befell the civilization of the ancient Ogres from befalling us as well. As I have hinted at previously, I believe we are on the precipice. 
