---
title: The Knights of Redemption
enableToc: 
tags:
  - gdoc
---
All who believe that light can be brought back to this dark age, that we can return to the world of old of peace and right rulership, can find their home in Pax Nova, protected by the Knights of Redemption. It was decadence, heresy, and sin that brought about this dark age, but through righteousness and heroism we may be redeemed. 

The Knights of Redemption were founded by the great heroes Queen Eudoxia the paladin of Lug, Gakt the orc, and the wizard Simeon. These heroes had long been renowned for their forays into the dungeons around Atnia, bringing great treasures out with them.  The unlikely band were formed of Eudoxia, a priestess of the Veriglas in Hellas, technically holding the status of the gold cast in Atnia due to a political marriage in her line. Gakt came from the indigenous peoples of the mountains in Atnia, pushed to its borders by Atnian soldiers. Simeon was a scholar of law from the Atnian city of Liev. 

Before the apocalypse they were subject to some amount of drama. Eudoxia is said to have foreseen the oncoming apocalypse, and began petitioning the church to acknowledge gods long considered heretical that they might be appeased and not bring about some great disaster. When the apocalypse happened she was in Myrkur, with a popular riot rallying around her in petitioning the church to accept the god Zoggir as a member of the official pantheon. An edict was just being sent from the north to excommunicate her from the church, though this fact is lost to history as the envoy died in the ensuing catastrophe and never survived.

In the ensuing disaster the three heroes protected those they could and helped them retreat into the mountains. Simeon used his now great magic to move the earth itself and create stable land in the middle of a great lake that they might protect themselves from the hoard of monsters, and thus Pax Nova was born. Years went by and Eudoxia, as the only surviving member of the gold caste that anyone knew of, was crowned interim Queen of Pax Nova.  Other members of the gold cast have since arrived, but Eudoxia remains the one with the closest ties to the last king who is presumed dead, and thus she has remained on the throne until a more direct descendent of the royals can be found. Knightly orders were founded in the names of the three heroes, and they began to carve out a place for a new Atnia. 

Other Knights errant were encountered as they began to push past the darkness and expand their borders. Any who had noble blood and wished to be acknowledged as a knightly order were granted a seat in the council at Pax Nova, and so it came to be that a great many orders who still had the strength to bear swords were incorporated into the Knights of Redemption. Most of these orders numbered less than ten members, though the greatest among them by far was the Knights of the Torch numbering nearly two hundred. The Knights of the Torch ostensibly worship the forge god Braeg, but in truth follow in the footsteps of Gakt and devote their primary worship to Zoggir (much to the chagrin of the traditionalists). The knights of the torch tend to be the first that outsiders meet of the knights of redemption, and they dedicate themselves to heroism and the lighting of dark places, bringing invention and civilization to dungeons, aiding other adventurers where they are found. They are among the staunchest supporters of Queen Eudoxia after her own Moon Knights. 

Over time, Gakt and Simeon fell, leaving only Eudoxia to protect her people. Her strength and her vice was that she let no one else sacrifice more than herself for her people, and the knights after her would follow in her footsteps, bearing more weight than any mortal should bear and ultimately paying the price. Eudoxia would learn her husband Simeon’s magic and engage in the forbidden arts of immortality to make herself into an eternal Lich queen to protect her people for eternity, binding herself with both divine and arcane magic such that she must always act to protect her people. The Lich Queen Eudoxia appears an eternally youthful queen, blessed by the gods, but in truth yearns to break free of the shackles placed upon her by her former self and live only for her own selfish aims, as her selfless soul died with the ritual that gave her immortal life. 

The Knights of Redemption now rest in the great city of Pax Nova in the middle of a lake in the northern mountains, with only one path leading to the city that can easily be defended by their soldiers. Though each individual order boasts only a small army, each soldier is a knight in full and has spent years training in the art of battle. 

Pax Nova preserves much of the logic of the old world but in an idealized form. Nobles have more rights than the peasants but truly fight and die for them, and a peasant who wishes has a kind of upward mobility through acts of heroism and valor that would not have been granted in the old Atnia. Still, hereditary nobles benefit off the backs of the peasants and bold knights through no work of their own, and many seek to reinstate the old harder feudalism. 

Eight knightly orders form the heart of The Knights of Redemption and hold the most political relevance:

The Order of the Moon: The knights that follow directly in Eudoxia’s footsteps employing arcane magic to enhance and stretch the scarce resource of divine magic. This order is small as it takes over a decade of training to fully master the divine, arcane, and martial arts required of each of these knights, but each individual knight is a true terror to behold, having mastered all of the greatest talents available to mortal hands. The Knights of the Moon worship Lug as their primary god. 

The Order of the Sun: Following the sun god Ozen, the head of the Veriglas’s pantheon, these are the hard line traditionalists among the knights of redemption. The least inclined to put their lives on the line themselves, these are political knights who are often not even particularly skilled in combat. If they are talented, they are talented at rapier duels which they wield as a political cudgel. They oppose Queen Eudoxia in many things and are constantly seeking to find a more rightful ruler for Atnia, but acknowledge that her claim is the truest of any yet found. 

The Order of the Torch: These knights are the most accepting of any of the knightly orders, allowing into their ranks practically anyone who wishes to join, though they must endure the constant onslaught of contests of might and of storytelling that their betters will bring against them to remain within the order. They are also more accepting of nonhumans than practically any other knightly order, and it is rare to see an orc in Pax Nova who is not a Knight of the Torch. Seen as barbarians and lower than nobility by many of the other orders, and derided as a shortcut to knighthood, the Knights of the Torch are not treated well within the confines of Pax Nova. In the outside world, however, they are largely responsible for the positive reputation with other survivors that The Knights of Redemption enjoy. The Knights of the Torch venerate Zoggir and the forge god Braeg. 

The Order of the Mirror: The order of the mirror prioritizes balance above all else. They are political centrists, striving to find common ground and agreements between the other knightly orders. They approach combat with the same philosophy they do diplomacy, seeking to identify the way their opponent fights and to adapt their style to a balanced opposite to throw them off their guard. The Knights of the Mirror venerate Tta the god of correspondence. 

The Order of the Lake: The other knightly order associated with peasants and the lower castes, these knights are the direct defenders of Pax Nova, dedicating themselves to the sanctity of the lake. They live in the barracks on the walls of Pax Nova, and because of this housing those without anywhere else to go often swear themselves as lake knights. Because of their necessity and bravery, however, they are not viewed with quite the same scorn as the Knights of the Torch are by those with claim to higher nobility. They venerate Vosderon, god of the sea. 

The Order of the Poppy: The classic romantic image of a knight, this is the other faction of knights most populated by high nobility, prioritizing personal honor above all else and striving to fit the image of a knight that stepped right out of a fairy tale. They are a conservative faction, but much less concerned with politics than the Knights of the Sun. Their politics are more of a naive kind of conservatism that assumes if everyone does what they’re supposed to do everyone will be protected and happy. They venerate Mvos, god of dream, though somewhat out of line with how he was conceived in the original pantheon, viewing his influence as one of relentless idealism and hope. 

The Order of the Book: Founded in memory of Simeon, The Order of the Book are mages and scholars. Like the Knights of the Sun and the Poppy, the order of the book is made up primarily of higher nobility, but they are the more left leaning faction among the higher nobles. Venerating Eudoxia’s husband they tend to be staunch supporters of their rule, and as the educated class aware of history they tend to acknowledge the vital importance of giving peasants their due. But they are also the least monolithic of the knightly orders, and are often found on both sides of debates in court, and they certainly count some right wingers and traditionalists among their number. They venerate Hwain, god of magic. 

The Order of the Coin: Originally a merchant’s guild that quickly and quietly bought their way to political relevance, The Order of the Coin does what suits it for its own power, often siding with the conservative coalition. They venerate Oln, the god of the dead, and have used this fact to accumulate even more wealth by taking tithes for funeral rites. Almost as highly as their own god they venerate the chancellor Pyrus, acknowledging that he was the true ruler of the old Atnia, and seeking to rule from the shadows through soft power just as he did. 

Minor Orders:

The Order of the Ring: A small knightly order dedicated to the beauty of marriage and the bonds of love and trust. They venerate Eda and Abon, the goddess and god of marriage. They tell of the romantic story of Eudoxia and Simeon and of the bonds of friendship they held with Gakt. They preside over agreements and oaths, and usually one is present when a knight within the walls of Pax Nova swears a new oath to their order. In many ways they are the beating heart of Pax Nova, presiding over marriages and agreements and focusing not on political matters but what people in the community owe one another. 

The Order of Wheat: As Pax Nova expanded outward and began working farms outside the city, though these farms were generally protected by knights and the arcane towers that dot the landscape to draw in and trap monsters sometimes a raid would slip through and the people in the farms would have to flee back to Pax Nova for the protection of the knights. Occasionally, these peasants would rise up and defend themselves, and often would be offered knighthood for their bravery. Usually this meant joining one of the great knightly orders, but a small band of peasants that defended their village politely declined to join any of the orders of knights, preferring to start their own and remember their roots as people of the land. The Order of Wheat has since rapidly grown with knights who wish to forever wear their status as peasants as a badge of pride even while being granted the privilege of nobility. Wheat Knights are somewhat numerous, but scattered as they tend not to leave their villages except on important business. 

The Order of the Wall: It is only a matter of time before the knights on the wall in the old watch will receive an invitation to appear in court in Pax Nova. Only time will tell how they will respond. 


