---
title: History of The Salt Alliance
enableToc: 
tags:
  - gdoc
---
Prior to the arrival of the archmages the immediate jungle around Aton was populated only by ogres – or so they believed. For insects go everywhere, and through them goblins in the greater valley had informants on the happenings around the ruins. The wider valley and jungle was populated by scattered tribes of humans and orcs, and many goblins lived in the mountains or frequented the nearby rivers for trade. Some of the goblins in these mountains were part of The Order of the Second – a secret sect of goblins dedicated to encouraging the creation of a new magical empire as great as the old empire of the ogres. They pass down the lore of an old great empire where goblins thrived in the background and note the tools to create a new one. With Aton as the center of power for the old empire a section of the order has kept an eye on these ruins for many centuries. Seeing ogrish populations grow thinner over time and humans take an increased interest in their ruins this sect saw its opportunity and began pulling strings to instigate the expedition to Aton.

For their part the orcs and humans of the valley organized themselves into a great number of small tribes scattered throughout the jungle and surrounding plains (sometimes tribes involving both species, others of just orcs or just humans, few of these tribes number more than a hundred individuals at a given time). These tribes formed a broad loose cultural group that shared similar gods and language (though the language of this valley had many dialects). These tribes were broadly unintegrated with wider civilization, being seen as savages by the larger surrounding kingdoms, city states, and empires.

While these tribes are varied there are some shared mutual cultural traditions. The beginning of spring marks a time of great plenty and neighboring tribes hunt the same territories without much concern to fatten themselves again after the winter, and little conflict occurs during this time. The end of spring marks the time of wars where the boundaries of tribes territories for the summer through the next winter will be outlined. Usually on pre-arranged dates to not conflict with other ‘wars’ two tribes will line up near their historic borders and battle to determine the exact boundaries for the year. Usually these battles are almost entirely bloodless, being conducted with “clang blades”, or large heavy weapons where the sport is to strike your opponent’s clang blade and knock them off balance. In cases where relations between two tribes are close, these wars are closer to a shared seasonal festival where the young warriors engage in a tournament of skill and strength. Where there is animosity between two tribes the sport might turn more deadly or even into a real full-scale battle (though this is much much rarer). Usually these “wars” are somewhere in between, with few deaths but many injuries, ending in spitting and jeering but little true enmity. More about showing off strength, mutual respect, and having bragging rights back home than any actual regard for small details about territorial borders. Not showing up for a prearranged war is seen as a sign of either weakness or disrespect, and in both cases can be a precursor to more serious violence. 

While orcs and humans share these cultural traditions they generally follow different gods, though they usually believe in each other’s quite seriously. The gods of the Atnian orcs are exaggerated or fabricated tales of old heroes and each tied to a constellation, with their stories meant to be told at different times of the year. They serve to help orcs process and understand their intense emotions, and are often less relatable to humans (though many humans, especially those in the same tribe as orcs, take a special liking to some orcish gods, with Zoggir being a frequent favorite). The human gods of Atnia are more frequently personifications of the natural forces, and while orcs often feel less emotionally connected to these some of them also find them quite appealing. 

Ogres of the region are mostly closely tied with the ruins of Aton, living in the same mountains as the goblins or guarding the jungle around the ruins, and usually connected to the deeper history of the land and curating its return to strength. Almost all ogres in the region are members of the tradition who return to the ruins to feed themselves back to the earth. 

Failing to stop the expedition from Hellas to Aton the remaining ogres in the region at first decide to simply let human magic burn itself out, expecting it to be short lived. A rare miscalculation, they realize only too late the blight that is being brought upon the world and find themselves on the backfoot to a horrible power and lack of morality that is difficult to combat. Hiding in the mountains they carefully consider their next move and disrupt human supplies and transportation to buy as much time as possible and slow down the experiments of the archmages. 

As Pyrus grows in power and begins building his cities in Atnia at first the tribes of orcs and humans in the region pay little mind. Their earliest experiences are attempting to engage in the same sort of border warring they always do with these more “peaceful” settlements, but find that real slaughter meets their attempts at mock battle. As animosity increases they are treated like bandits and slowly driven towards the mountains where the orcs and goblins reside. Seeing this as useful cover, through the broader network of goblin mages The Order of the Second begins helping these refugees to build mutual aid networks, which are later gladly joined by local ogres as well who also see value in the information provided by this organization and the potential for organizing guerilla action where it is most necessary. And thus The Salt Alliance is born.

Hiding in the mountains they incorporate each of their unique talents and abilities to the maximum. Goblin architects help to build settlements that can easily be moved, ogre guides find places in the wilderness ideal as hideouts. Humans and orcs help to defend them and with the labor to build. Still other ogres guard passes throughout the mountains and ask riddles of anyone attempting to pass, using these to determine the intentions of travelers and whether they should be allowed to pass. Often where ogres tell riddles goblin scouts watch in hiding, waiting to run back to the hideout to send warning when the ogres are attacked. 

The Salt Alliance slowly expands as an information network stretching to other similar organizations of outcasts outside of Atnia, and to include other refugees including political dissidents and exiles, escaped prisoners, disgruntled soldiers turned bandits, and others. Though in many ways this alliance is poorly organized, goblin traders and spies are the glue that holds the whole thing together, connecting groups that can use each other's aid in action or for protection or supplies they need. Though there are internal factions and some conflict, this is kept to a relative minimum given the mortal danger presented by infighting. A shared culture develops in The Salt Alliance incorporating practices and beliefs from all the cultures incorporated within it as well as from far off lands. 

Ogres and goblins strive to curb the clang-blade battles of orcs and humans as they are often loud and conspicuous and can be a threat to the security of hideouts, but the practice is difficult to stamp out (and some goblins even adopt it). It does change form, however, as spaces must be more frequently shared and borders become less of a thing. Where the traditions had previously been more varied, rules were developed so that the sport may be engaged in by the now more nomadic groups interacting with communities they had never had direct contact with before. As real violence becomes more necessary members of these communities take to carrying two blades: a clang blade and a sharp blade. Sharp blades are associated with murder and treachery and their use except in dire need is frowned upon. While members of Atnian society who see the giant hunks of metal that are often clang blades might be intimidated, the presence of a clang blade on someone’s back is a sign of a peaceful warrior who may be trusted for a member of The Salt Alliance. 

After the apocalypse The Salt Alliance grows more fractured. The portion in Atnia becomes more isolated from the outside world by the ogres from Mnem who now stand guard in the passes out in an attempt to quarantine those affected by the arcane rift. Atnian ogres find themselves with split allegiances, for they understand better than any of the other species what this quarantine means: all in Atnia are to be returned to the earth. Not immediately, of course, as the best way to accomplish things is to nudge events as they play themselves out. Many Atnian ogres have come to care for their compatriots and seek to change the minds or even rebel against the ogres from Mnem, while others see the necessity of their action and strive to aid them. While most goblins, including the previously hidden goblin mages, celebrate the apocalypse, The Order of the Second sees it as a catastrophe, and begin attempting to manipulate elements within The Salt Alliance to take the power of the arcane rift for themselves in the hope of creating a new regime led by a great archmage of one of the other species (ideally a human or an orc, for the ogres have shown they cannot be trusted to hold onto power). 

Most of this infighting occurs in the background, the hideouts of the Salt Alliance burgeon into cities, and while they are harder to coerce into action there are frequent celebrations. Clang blade duels are once again also conducted as team sports between larger groups, carried out in the open with noise for all to hear. Magic is increasingly commonly developed without any attempt at study due to the power of the arcane rift, and The Salt Alliance embraces it. Some ogres even offer their guidance to the other species just learning to handle their power (something other more traditional ogres see as a deep betrayal of their duty). 
