---
title: History of the Orcs
enableToc: 
tags:
  - gdoc
---
Orcs as a species are incredibly close to their emotions. They laugh when amused, shout when angry, and cry when sad, and it requires great feats of willpower not to do these things. It is difficult for orcs to lie directly without it showing on their face, though they find misleading truths much easier. Orcs cannot turn off their empathy for other living beings, just like any other emotion or feeling. Those who know orcs know not to fear for one’s life (only injury) when they see the orc’s face contorted with rage, but an orc sobbing or laughing on the battlefield should be avoided at all costs, for in all likelihood it is they who have made the choice to kill. 
	Given that orcs cannot fail but feel emotion to its fullest, a sort of emotional alchemy becomes an important medium of self control. Ystosk, The Laughing One, is one of the hero-gods of the Aton orcs, and orcs elsewhere in the world likely have similar concepts. While humans strive to make themselves calm in order to carry out actions counter to their emotions, this does not work for orcs, but they may learn to see the humor in their lot and laugh through the terrible things they must do. Because laughter can be used to mask or alter so many other emotions, laughing too much or at inappropriate times is viewed with mistrust among orcs. Orcs also have a particular concept of laugh-madness, or someone who descends into constant fits of laughter to disconnect themselves from their other cares. Nothing is more dangerous than a laugh-mad orc. Ystosk is one of the hero-gods spoken about as much with fear as reverence, and young orcs are frequently warned not to lose themselves to his influence. But orcs in bands that are at war and must kill often pray to Ystosk so that they might find the humor in the terrible actions they undertake in order to steel themselves for them. Others invoke his wife Kluatra, The Weeping One in such circumstances. Orcs misinterpreting nervous laughter from a human is probably a common source of misunderstanding and animosity. 
Prior to the great ogre empire orcs were broadly organized into small tribes dotted across the landscape. Orcs interacted the most with humans, as the two species are both opportunistic communal omnivores and would thus often be drawn to the same food sources. Sometimes this led to competition, but collaboration and even tribes composed of both orcs and humans were not unheard of. I think one mixed tribe’s practice could be to make use of humans’ ability to run great distances by having them carry their orc compatriots on their backs while tracking prey down, so that the orcs’ energy would be preserved for the sprint when they would take over the hunt. 
Orcs were the first to invent boats, a creation that attracted the immediate fascination of goblins, who saw these vessels as not just mere tools for fishing but as gateways to the entire world and far off lands beyond their wildest dreams. Seafaring communities composed of both orcs and goblins are also relatively common at this time, and remain so throughout history. These communities often resemble vikings, seeking resources along the rivers and engaging in trade or raids as it suits them. Orcs and goblins get along easily, both being very passionate creatures. Though these passions might be different, they find it easy to make space for each other in the best cases. In the worst cases goblins can attempt to manipulate the straightforward orcs, and orcs who begin to perceive this take to bullying the goblins. 
Orcs never integrate into the great ogre empire to the same extent as the other species. The strength and importance of their immediate emotions is incompatible with the long term perspective of organized society. While many tribes of orcs live alongside ogres for a time and work with them and enjoy their protection, they usually move on. In conversation orcs and ogres frequently talk past each other, both completely baffled by the other. 
When the ogre empire falls orcs care the least but in some ways are also the most affected. The loss of the ogre empire is mostly neither here nor there to orcs when it happens, but the following environmental collapse affects their distributed communities in some of the harshest ways. While the other species turn to their own civilizations there are not large societies of orcs waiting to be formed, and living off the land in a nomadic lifestyle becomes incredibly difficult. While orcs had shown little interest in forming large civilizations before, as near-extinction looms many orcs begin banding together into much larger communities than ever before in the hopes of survival, but things still look bleak. Never before having taken much of an interest in the hunting of dragons while the other races strove to, now orcs see the necessity in such a feat.
And so along comes the hero Zoggir. Accounts differ wildly as to their actual story but certain basic details remain the same. During the great time of famine many bands of orcs had gathered together to form a vast army with the sole purpose of hunting down a dragon for its power before they starved. But as is often the case with great organizations made by the other species, somehow the leaders of this army were only the most incompetent and egotistical from among the orcs. Zoggir was a young warrior from (usually when the story is told the teller inserts their own tribe). Usually, Zoggir is a braggart who insults the leaders of the great army claiming that they could do better, but some tellings of the story differ. Regardless, the leaders of the army wish to see Zoggir dead for this insolence and send them on six seemingly impossible tasks. These tasks differ in the telling but common favorites include moving a mountain out of the way of the great army (sometimes Zoggir splits the mountain in two with a single blow, other times they rearrange the camps in the middle of the night such that the army is facing another direction and the incompetent leaders are none the wiser, among myriad others). Each time though through some feat of might, diplomacy, or cleverness Zoggir prevails. Finally, Zoggir has won the support of the entire army and it is clear they will soon revolt against their leaders. In anger the leaders say “fine, if you’re so amazing slay the dragon yourself, why do you need our army in the first place?” To which Zoggir replies something like: “I could do it myself, but without the help of my brothers and sisters I would surely die performing the task.” Of course it is eventually agreed that Zoggir will do it alone, and through some mixture of cleverness and strength they accomplish the task dying in the process just as they predicted.
For a while after this orcs are the most active magic users channeling the force of the elements to overcome still greater prey and they thrive. Only for some centuries later for ogres to begin their purge of mages in the other species, to orcs an act of cruelty they never recovered from and while the stories may be distorted great grudges against the ogres are still held to this day. 
Orcs still remember with a mixture of pride and disgust the days that many of their tribes banded into great armies to tackle a mutual threat. Such things are discussed again when the archmage empire begins amassing and in places where orcs are persecuted, but organizing under a single banner is difficult for orcs and in all the stories the leaders of these great armies tend to be more the problem than the solution so there is deep mistrust for the concept. 

In Atnia orcs are treated as equal citizens if they obey the laws, but of course the laws are not structured in a way that is convenient or easy for orcs to obey, so in practice they are often treated as criminals by default. In Hellas some citystates are comprised entirely and partly of orcs, whereas others are incredibly xenophobic to nonhumans. In Mykeldor orcs are accepted so long as they embrace the true church, which of course fails to acknowledge any gods of orcish origin. In Mnem orcs are rare. In Lekvia orcs are treated as terribly as any other members of the peasant class. In Jespark orcs are treated no different from anyone else – And the emotional honesty inherent to orcish nature is a cultural norm for humans here as well. 

Atnian orcish hero-gods (There should be many more of these but just keeping notes):

Zoggir - Storytelling, boastfullness, ideal heroism
Ystosk - The laughing one. Humor in all things, self-control, madness, treachery, lies, murder, revenge.
Kluatra - The weeping one. Sadness, loss, mourning, murder, revenge. 
The story of Ystosk and Kluatra is one of great tragedy and revenge, where their children and families are slaughtered in unimaginably cruel ways. Thereafter they swear vengeance for their great wrong, he always laughing a horrible sick laugh and she always weeping. They channel the power of these emotions to avenge their grievances. As is somewhat abnormal for orcs they lie and kill indiscriminately on the way to their goal, though the listener is meant to empathize with them and understand this as a case where such emotions are necessary following the path of these heroes without dire need is frowned upon and they are both associated with treachery as much as heroism. Importantly for the lesson the latter half of the story is them both learning to live afterwards and escape the laugh-madness and horrible sadness that afflicts them.
