---
title: History of the Archmages
enableToc: 
tags:
  - gdoc
---
Nyka and Pyrus came from the same city on the Hellas archipelago. At the time, these islands and a neighboring chunk of continent were home to dozens of city states that frequently warred with one another, as well as pirates and outcasts. As children, Nyka and Pyrus had little in common. As young adults, they were both sent off to study at the same famous university on Adva. 
	Nyka studied history and literature. Pyrus studied law, languages, and diplomacy, hoping to one day be elected consul of their city. There they met Augusta, also from Hellas but a different island, the cleverest daughter of a large family of professional soldiers sent to study cartography, tactics, and navigation. At this age (15-19?) the three of them became friends. They later meet Sorvald, a wealthy noble from Lekvia in the far north sent to Adva to study medicine. Initially there’s some rivalry here, but they eventually all become friends (Pyrus and Sorvald in particular become close, and I think Pyrus might grow a bit apart from Nyka and Augusta later). 
	At Adva, they all come to be taken under the wing of the teacher Oana. Oana comes from the far off city-state of Mnem, and was known to be a multi-talented genius in many fields. She always claimed to have gained special insight into the secrets of life after wandering into elvish ruins near her home. As the four students are reaching the end of their studies, it happens that Oana unexpectedly receives a tremendous amount of funding to go investigate an unexplored site of elvish ruins referred to as Aton, in the north somewhere in between Mnem and Lekvia. Up until now every expedition to see those ruins since their discovery has ended in disaster, with few survivors, due to the danger of that stretch of jungle and ogre attacks. But with the funding comes the promise of a veritable army of mercenaries at the expedition’s disposal. So she gathers some of her pupils who might prove useful and begins the journey. 
	So the scholars slaughter their way through the jungle and set up camp in the ruins, eventually discovering magic there. At some point during the expedition Pyrus/Nyka’s home city is slaughtered by pirates. After some time of the scholars continuing to work enamored by their findings promised reinforcements to their mercenaries arrive, led by Cyrvo. Rather than simply bringing mercenaries this time Cyrvo brings an entire small army of church knights, and politely asks to be shown the mage’s discovery.
	He warns the new mages that the church might quickly turn on these powers, and tells   them that regardless of their findings if they want to continue they will have to bear his lie that all magic is granted by the gods. Still, it is true that it can be used to contact gods, and in that way Cyrvo assures him he might attain good standing in the church and ensure that the mage’s research is not interfered with. After staying with them for some months he returns with copies of the mage’s notes to the church, and quickly sets about the task of taking it over.
	The next to leave is Augusta, who returns to Hellas and immediately uses her hefty pay from the expedition to hire her own family among many other mercenaries to hunt to a man the pirates that slaughtered Pyrus and Nyka’s home. Winning each battle with ease, without the apparent use of magic and even with little use of weapons outmaneuvering enemy ships to the point of comedy. Augusta becomes a renowned admiral and quickly is on the payroll of many of the nations of Hellas to deal with their pirate issues. Augusta later ends up managing a tentative alliance between the various city-states which are left to their own devices and in some sense free, but also free to do horrible things within their boundaries. The pirate communities that previously thrived now live in fear.
	Sorvald then returns to Lekvia where he quickly is appointed as court physician to the king, and with his help the country flourishes and begins a slow but steady expansion. Nyka is the next to leave. Struck deeply by the horrors at Aton, the slaughter of the ogres and the destruction of her home she begins wandering aimlessly throughout the world in search of answers. But rather than finding them for herself she almost unintentionally gives them to others. Wandering equally through the real world and dream she becomes a sort of accidental prophet, and many begin following their reluctant mentor. Finally after plumbing all that could be found in the ruins Oana returns to her home city of Mnem, around which are many more Elvish ruins to explore.
	Pyrus, lacking a home back in Hellas, decides to remain at Aton. During the time the scholars were there a bustling city had formed around filling their needs and the needs of the many soldiers stationed there. Pyrus set to work managing this town and eventually began founding others according to his ideal theories of law and societal structure.
	During this time all of the early archmages wrote letters to one another frequently and remained close friends – This habit strongly encouraged by Pyrus, who in addition to keeping up with his scholar friends struck up correspondence with many important or interesting people around the world, and often produced dozens of letters each day. Nyka is difficult to reach, but often wanders into the dreams of her friends to chat. The others begin to fear her for this. 
	The early bickering between the archmages also began around this time. While they remain close friends, there are more insinuations that one’s school of magic is better than the others, and the practice of total knowledge sharing that they began with begins to break down as some insist on keeping a few trade secrets. Knowing that the close bonds between the other archmages present a danger to him if things were to ever go poorly, Cyrvo begins subtly fueling the fires of these divisions as best he can.
	For his own part Cyrvo, through the display of true miracles, manages to unite several of the world’s major churches into The Veriglas, the world’s one true church. Seeing his own power and the power of his fellow archmages he realizes that the best way to remain on top is to uphold the balance of power. In addition to playing the other mages against one another in the hopes that no dominant coalition can form, he makes it clear that in the house of Ozen, the king of the gods, live five other great gods of equal importance to the structure of the world: Hwain, god of magic and Ozen’s father who in fact ruled the gods in the time of the Elves, but has since retired leaving his son to rule. Tta, goddess of connection, spaces, and symmetry and wife of Hwain – Grandmother of the gods. And Ozen’s brothers and sister Oln of the dead, Braeg of the forge, and Mvos of dream. 
	Things settle this way for quite some time with very little changing for probably close to a century. None of the archmages achieve immortality but through the medical expertise provided by Sorvald and their own many powers the aging of the archmages is glacially slow. Sorvald’s rulers age and die but he remains, and though for the most part the kings are left to their own devices the advice of the eternal court physician becomes something impossible to ignore. Pyrus’s cities around Aton are united into the nation of Atnia, and he is nearly unanimously elected (by a vote open only to the landed aristocracy) to the office of chancellor. Augusta tightens her control over the Hellas archipelago, rooting out any rebels and pirates from the smaller islands and preserving the supremacy of the alliance of city states that now both bankrolls and fears the power of her army. An order of dream monks dedicates itself to finding and serving their reluctant prophet and mentor Nyka, who usually tries to avoid them but occasionally asks their help when in need or provides advice or wisdom when she is found. Oana finds many more secrets at the core of magic in elvish ruins, and Mnem expands into an entire nation around the economy built by her expeditions. The vast ogre population in the region is incorporated into society, in many cases by force. 
	During these years Pyrus maintains his vast web of correspondences with world leaders, intellectuals, and other interesting people. One day he is sent a surprising letter from youngest son of the king of Jespark, the ruler of a large desert kingdom to the south who had been a frequent thorn in Pyrus’s side, brazenly ignoring rules of decorum and refusing any promises of peace. The young prince Lutekai’s letter apologized for the brazenness of his father and intimates to Pyrus that his elder siblings are even worse and war will likely be inevitable when his father’s health finally fails. The letter concluded with a request for a letter of introduction from Pyrus to Sorvald so that Lutekai might learn medicine and keep his father’s death at bay until he can get a handle on court politics and restrict the power of the military. Pyrus, immediately impressed and seeing some of his younger self in this kid’s ambition, assented and Lutekai shortly thereafter traveled to Lekvia to be one of Sorvald’s pupils.
	Lutekai is immediately a favorite, quickly graduating from mere student to a vital assistant in Sorvald’s experiments. Years pass like this, with Pyrus also growing close to Lutekai through his frequent visits under the guise of diplomatic envoys to Lekvia. During this time Lutekai invents an entire new branch of alchemy focused on the rapid manipulation of larger forces. Then, suddenly, the king of Jespark died and Lutekai’s older siblings immediately began a succession war. With the blessing of Sorvald, Lutekai returned home to take control of his kingdom. 
	Sorvald and Pyrus both expected this to be the end of Jespark as a thorn in their side and to now have a docile and respectful neighbor, but they forgot the ambition that they so respected in their young student. After pacifying his sibling’s forces and taking the throne, Lutekai immediately began bragging to the world that he had invented a new brand of magic more powerful than that of his former teacher, as showcased by the victories he won in the succession war with few soldiers and almost entirely on the power of his own mastery of the elements. Incensed, Sorvald and Pyrus began immediately making preparations for war, but before their plans could come to fruition an announcement came out of Mykeldor: Upon further examination of the records in the Elvish ruins, it seems there was a seventh resident of the house of Ozen: Vosderon the god of the seas and calamities. The announcement elaborated that this made perfect sense, as without Vosderon the house of the gods would have been stagnant and always in order, but this element of chaos is what pushed the gods to learn and grow throughout the years. The symbolism was clear, and to declare war on Lutekai would mean deep offense to the religious factions in Sorvald and Pyrus’s own territories. 

The Great Mystery
Oana:

There is a great mystery at the heart of this world. I first glimpsed it as a child, and have been seeking the threads ever since. I’m afraid to say I was ill-behaved in my youth, taken to bouts of temper. I was raised in Mnem – an ancient city isolated from the rest of the world. They say Mnem was founded during the great famine many thousands of years ago by orcs and humans – though the truth of this is hard to say. Their stories are often more legend than history. Few orcs live there these days in any case. 
Mnem is an odd city, affected both by its deep and ancient culture and the peculiar fact that it sees more contact with foreigners from distant lands than its nearest neighbors. Nestled on the edge of the jungle on the western coast of the great continent, travel in and out most commonly comes through the port. The east road is ill-maintained, and only caravans with a heavy contingent of mercenaries or soldiers dare brave those roads lest they be set upon by the ogre raiding bands that stalk those trees. 
My mother used to tell me tales to keep me from ever entering those woods, stories of travellers seeing elvish ruins off the road. Lured by the riches that were rumored to lie within those stone halls they would stray from the path. But guarding those treasures lurked the beastly ogres who would set upon the adventurers. Sometimes ambushing them, othertimes asking them riddles. As ogres are wont to do they would fly into a rage when the riddle was answered and the outcome would always be the same – none returned from those ruins with treasure, and few returned at all.
Rebellious and adventurous child that I was, those stories had an effect opposite to their intent. Since I was small I dreamed of venturing into those ruins and being the first to pull out the treasures hidden within. Then, I imagined those treasures as golden crowns and jewels. That I would emerge from the woods triumphant, dressed like a queen and full of tales of danger and glory.
As I grew a little older I convinced myself I was practically grown, and my little acts of rebellion got more severe. I fought with my mother more often in those days. And after those fights I would turn to fantasies of stealing her sword and making off into the jungle in search of glory, returning with enough riches to buy my own home and be free of her tyranny. One day – I must have been fifteen –  I finally set out to make good on these dreams, slipping out into the jungle in the dead of night. 
Shivering from cold and fear I walked out into the jungle, determined to return a hero. I did not expect the canopy of trees to block the light of the stars so, and I quickly found myself in total darkness with no idea what direction was home. I must have wandered like this for many hours, my sense of immortality draining quickly, replacing itself with a conviction that I would never again see the morning light. Brushing past tree and vine in the pitch darkness, sword clenched tightly in my hand, there were moments of that wandering that I was convinced I had already died and was wandering through the twilight lands. 
But then I saw a silvery light through the trees and I rushed towards it. Pushing towards it I saw that there was a gap in the canopy through which the light of the moon flooded down. Bathed in that light was the mouth of an elvish ruin, an edifice of stone covered with ancient carvings. It was like I had suddenly stumbled into dream itself, for the ruins were exactly as I had seen them in my sleep on so many nights. 
Perched on a fallen rectangle of stone and idly humming was a great ogre, a grey-skinned grinning monster with a giant belly and jagged, uneven teeth.

“By what tragedy or mistake comes human child through thorn and bramble?” The ogre spoke in my language with an accent like none I had ever heard, its voice rumbling like an avalanche. 

I froze in terror, seeing the monster in person the sword I had thought to slay it with seemed little more than a toothpick hanging lamely from my hand.

“Speak child, many things in this wood would feast upon your bones.”

I tightened my grip on my sword. I remembered that in the tales of great heroes that they stood strong in the face of even the greatest danger, and they always found a way to prevail when all hope seemed lost.

“I am here to venture into the ruins of the elves.” The ogre cocked its head and fixed me with a quizzical gaze. Growing nervous at the lengthy silence I gripped my sword tighter and continued “And to best any beast that would stand in my way.”

At that, the ogre let out a great, bellowing laugh.

“Would you stop me from entering these ruins, monster?”

“I might. I wonder, child, if you have heard the story of …?” The creature made a strange braying guttural sound that I suspect is quite unpronounceable with a human tongue. A sound I now suspect is an ogre bastardization of the elvish god Lug. 

“No…” I eyed the creature warily, suspecting that this was the opening to an ogre’s riddle. Though I was afraid of what might happen after I had to answer, I thought I would let it speak as it might give me time to think up a way to defeat the creature. 

“I think Lug (though once again he did not say it that way) might be a lot like you, child. 

A Lesson
The anecdote is told differently depending on the teller, but the basic details remain the same. When the archmages Nyka, Pyrus, Augusta, and Sorvald were students in Oana’s advanced anthropology course the lesson gave way to a heated debate among the students. At first, Oana remained silent leaving the students to reason amongst themselves.

Sorvald: 
