---
title: The Old Watch History
enableToc: 
tags:
  - gdoc
---
Before the apocalypse The Old Watch was a forgotten keep on Atnia’s southern border. Through a quirk of history (or perhaps Pyrus’s master plan) it existed within Atnia’s borders but outside of its laws. The ostensible purpose was to guard against an invasion from Jespark, but in truth it was meant to defend against internal threats created by Pyrus’s experiments in those mountains. The knights assigned to the old watch were only those who were truly talented among political pariahs. It was seen as a low status position of exile, but at the same time Pyrus wanted only the best and most noble to guard against these threats. 
	As part of its cover, Pyrus also allowed other nobles to use the fortress as they saw fit, generally they would vacation there to be outside of the magical laws of the land, under the guise of going to take a brief command of the fortress. These high nobles would use this time to bully the standing force, do unspeakable things to their peasant servants, or take drugs and the like that were not legal in Atnia. 
	It was during the wintering of a particularly vicious group of high nobles that the apocalypse happened, just as their peasant servants took the opportunity to rebel, let in by the soft hearted Tark Randovin who could not stomach the violence his family inflicted on them any longer. The bells in the palace rang calling the knights on the wall to come in the defense of the royals, but no one arrived and many were slaughtered. Tark’s family, beloved, and friends were spared along with the nobles that had not treated the peasants so poorly and did not put up a fight in the raid on the palace. 
	The knights on the wall saw the lights of torches and heard the shouts and ringing of the bells of alarm, but their commander ordered them to face the outside and ignore what was behind. If the wave of monsters storming up the mountain were not dealt with, no one within the walls would survive. When dawn rose the next day the surviving knights stumbled, battered and bruised, into a changed village.
	The peasants now held charge of the palace and the remaining nobles were temporarily imprisoned, a representative of the peasants came to negotiate with the knights, who deliriously assented to whatever they were asked, saying only they sought to rest. Quickly their heroism was acknowledged and the peasants came to see them as fundamental allies in the new world, venerating their single-minded attention to defending the wall that they were charged with.
	After some days the extent of the damage was assessed and the new peasant government realized that the nobles had nowhere to flee to and no army to gather. They released the surviving nobles, and offered them a place in the new government as equals, for they could no longer overpower them by force. 
	This new mixed government was not to last, as the nobles repeatedly schemed to take control. In response, the peasants created stricter laws of process to ensure equality, and the nobles sought more and more ways to game it. Their plots quickly escalated in brutality, and eventually they were exiled from The Watch. During the politics around the exile there was much discussion of what to do with The Knights, who were nobles as well. Eventually it was agreed that knights who swore themselves to the wall above all else, and a disinterest in political matters, would be allowed to stay within the wall and keep their nobility. Some nobles who would otherwise have been exiled chose to join the knights and swear these oaths as well. 
	Rather than simply leave, many of the exiled nobles continued to fight against The Old Watch to the man, leading to the bogeyman-like image that the old watch holds of nobility to this day, more monsters than people. Other exiled nobles instead focused on surviving off the land, and though they lacked the skill to do so themselves they learned from animals and traded gifts with them, also becoming something other than human. 

In the meanwhile, The Old Watch’s government began to coalesce. At the urging of The Knights the assembly would handle all internal matters of The Watch, but a special defense council would be formed to discuss military matters and those relevant to the security of the walls. The defense council would be made up partly of elected officials but also of members of The Knights, and their meetings would be secret to prevent any internal threats or spies being able to interfere with the security of The Watch. The Knights wanted this so that they could share the true purpose of the watch with a select few leaders of the village, as they had learned of the dark experiments that Pyrus conducted in the woods in their time serving on the wall. They knew too of a tower where Pyrus was conducting horrible human experiments deep in the woods, and they began to send envoys to clear the roads to rediscover this tower. 
	Eventually, they found the Tower of the Inkbloods, and discovered that it was inhabited. The experiments had seemingly escaped, and become dark mages in their own right. While the people of the watch would have likely encouraged war with these new outsiders, The Defense Council agreed to negotiate with them, seeing use in having mages on the outside who could draw the attention of monsters with their power. The Inkbloods, recognizing they would be betrayed the moment they were no longer useful, quickly integrated themselves into the new ecosystem of The Old Watch’s society.

At the same time, The Old Watch’s assembly was beginning to codify itself. With foreigners at the gates seeking shelter the concept of a citizen began to form. Paranoid about all the times they had been betrayed by the nobles, they quickly set to creating a strict code of laws to make sure they were never to be taken advantage of again. To be a citizen one must perform labor and uphold the laws of the village. The definition of true labor became a point of political contention. 
Guilds also began to form as those working similar professions came to advocate in the assembly for the unique challenges they faced. The major dominant guilds were The Miners, The Builders, The Blacksmiths (which were integrated with The Church of the Forge, and encompassed the village’s priests as well), The Farmers, and The Scribes, with dozens of minor guilds cropping up for other professions. 
The politicization of cooking also began during this era, as peasants had always cooked for themselves and having a personal chef was considered an aspect of nobility. Thus those who cooked for others were not seen as performing valid or real labor. However, with the strict rules on distribution of goods often it was not clear what one was meant to cook with their rations, and it was more convenient for people living in community with one another to bring all their food to one individual to turn it into varied and balanced meals. 

Eventually, some of the nobles that had previously left returned, bearing gifts and having joined with indigenous tribes nearby. While they were not accepted back as full citizens their utility was also acknowledged. The construction of the second wall was already underway, and it was understood that citizens of the watch gained value from housing and feeding noncitizens who still performed important tasks for the villages.

Over the years another ring of walls would be made to protect still further farms. While the original walls are venerated and magical, and likely are a god unto themselves, the vast outer walls are the true feat of the builder’s skill. 
