---
title: History of the Goblins
enableToc: 
tags:
  - gdoc
---
To a human, a goblin might seem a terribly contradictory creature. It would seem that their tremendous ego is matched only by their lack of shame and boundless humility – or perhaps it is the other way around. Goblins, of course, understand that the humility to learn from others is precisely what gives them something to be prideful about. Goblins would rather be second in most things. To be first is to garner attention and to be the first to fail. To be second is to improve and expand upon what has been done – To do it the best. 

Goblins were the second species to make boats, taking the ideas in the orcs and expanding upon them. And now Goblins are the masters of navigating the rivers and seas. Goblins were the second to adopt the written language of the ogres, and it was they who had the idea to associate symbols with sounds – an idea that would later spread the world over. Goblins rarely lead openly if they can help it, preferring to leave such a dangerous duty to others and to guide from the background. Among themselves, goblin ‘leaders’ are either nobly sacrificing themselves or fools.

The way goblins tell it, there was a time when no animals had hands, for hands were the domain of father wind and his four daughters. One day when father wind got drunk and the orders of the world were in disarray the four daughter winds recruited helpers and gave them all hands. Monkeys were given hands to help carry fire to the cold parts of the world and ice to the warm – and these monkeys would one day call themselves humans. Bees, wasps, and flies were given hands to help spread plants across the land (to this day if you ask a goblin they will count pollinating insects among the sapient species, and they treat them as such in their dealings with them). Hyenas were given hands so that they might take to the sea with oars to help push motion into the waves – and these hyenas would one day call themselves orcs. Finally bears were given hands so that they might propel the clouds and seasons with their dreams – and these bears would one day call themselves ogres. Seeing all these much greater creatures gaining such mighty power a small fearful lizard saw that it might soon be hunted and stung into extinction by these new powerful creatures, so while father wind still lay drunk the lizard stole his hands – and the great grandchildren of this lizard would one day call themselves goblins.

In the early days these lizards mostly hid and watched the other great species in quiet fear. For they were predators and these lizards were prey. Though they adapted to eat meat their teeth were never so sharp and they were not so strong as these great beasts. Slowly though, they learned that orcs, goblins, humans, and insects alike could all be reasoned with to a greater degree than their other predators. One and all, the creatures with hands seemed more reluctant to feast on prey they could speak to. So goblins set themselves to getting good at talking to all of them. Having predators you could talk to had other advantages as well – other predators were less likely to attack you in the presence of these mighty creatures. Many groups of goblins made themselves indispensable companions to these other species. Learning seacraft from the orcs some sailed the seas and rivers and helped to serve as guides and planners for long voyages. Others joined landbound humans and orcs in their hunts, serving as distractions or helping them to construct traps for prey (many such goblins would adopt some of the more macho aspects of these other species, going so far as to sharpen their teeth like their more predatory companions). Still others would serve at the behest of the insects in their region, through careful care helping their populations to flourish and expand, and using their friendship with large hives of stinging insects to ward off their natural predators. And some goblins befriended ogres, learning from them the ways of keeping the land and attempting to expand and iterate on their ideas.

After some time there came to be goblins that would behave in these ways independent of the other species – and it was just one such tribe of sailing goblins that began trading with a fateful tribe of ogres, among many others. Seafaring goblins independent of any orcs found their most natural symbiotic relationships to be with ogres, who often formed settlements and moved little, but had excesses of some resources and need for others. Trading between these settlements of ogres was very rewarding for goblins, both for entertainment and a source of food. When the time came that one of these ogre settlements grew tremendously large (according to the ogres due to some rambling about the soil and a great beast planted in the ground that the goblins could make little sense of) the goblins found that trading with them became increasingly difficult. The ogres seemed to not understand or ignore the difficulty with increasing the size of trades on their little boats to accommodate their now vast imports and exports – or perhaps the ogres simply knew that the goblins would adapt. In addition to the thin canoes that the goblins normally used to transport themselves and reasonable quantities of supplies, the goblins began constructing wider rafts to carry large quantities of supplies that would be unmanned but guided by the canoes. These floated more slowly downriver, and delegations of goblins would arrive ahead of them. In this change there was opportunity to negotiate trades in advance, and with that to the ability to adjust plans based on needs and expected goods. But the details of such negotiations became difficult to keep in memory, and so the goblins developed a solution: seeing the pictograms that the ogres drew on their cave walls goblins devised a system for describing their goods using the sounds in the words that some common pictograms depicted, and other words for numbers. They did this using the ogre’s own languages to make it easier to teach them. And thus the first written phonetic language was born. 

- I think that there's a really great story here about the beginning of industrialization to accommodate the amount of wealth the ogres are eventually able to create, and the ogres hardly notice because there perspective is so elongated. Like the rafts are so laden that thy barely move forward, so they have to be pulled down the river on either side by oxen. Oxen which trample and compact the earth so that no plants can grow on the banks. The soil leaches in, fowling the water, the break water erodes and floods are more prevalent. Also I want to see people turning the heat desserts over massive stone cities into power of some kind. Like maybe they do it intentionally to fuck with he climate; Intentionally heating one area then calling winds, moister or cold air to begin shifting and causing torrential rain falls… And also the occasional hurricane but whatever. ---------------

As the great empire of the ogres expanded, goblins flourished too. Ogres seemed content to feed and house goblins and watch what they created. They also increasingly came to appreciate goblin’s relationship with the insects and frequently requested their aid in matters related to convincing them to behave in certain ways that served their long term ends. When the time came to hunt dragons ogres found that it was always easier with the help of goblins, and through their combined efforts the hunts with the fewest casualties were always accomplished. Goblins at this time learned their own magic – one of language, connection, and inspiration. Rather than manifesting itself in the form of flashy powers like the later magic of orcs and humans, it is a quiet, subtle magic similar and yet utterly different from that of ogres. While goblins are always inventive their magic of invention opens their mind completely to the connection of every idea they’ve been exposed to from anywhere to solve a specific problem. A sort of genius on demand. 

Some goblins found themselves at the negotiating table with the ogres when the environmental collapse began – a courtesy granted to neither orcs or humans. Rather than disband the empire goblins proposed countless inventive solutions to keep it alive, but the ogres ultimately agreed that such solutions would be insufficient and that an abandonment of the ruins was necessary. As ogres left the great cities, telling all other inhabitants to leave the goblins like the others scattered to the winds. But mostly they followed the humans that sought to build their own empires and kingdoms. However, they quickly found their new human leaders to be more difficult to work with than ogres. Humans had less long-term vision and their kings often ruled on personal ego. Goblins could, of course, manipulate this to some extent, but it became apparent that human kingdoms would only ever be temporary bastions of safety and fall as quickly as they rose, unlike their predecessors. Seeing this, many goblins chose to position themselves once again as go-betweens, taking back to the rivers to trade with the other species and not tie themselves to any particular failing empire.

During this time they developed a closer relationship with many tribes of orcs, who were deeply affected by the environmental collapse and in dire need of support. The goblins found that they could through trade gain resources for orcs and buy their labor in exchange. As human empires became increasingly self-concerned and egotistical goblins began to find in most cases orcs were the easier part of this relationship to establish true friendship and trust with.

When the ogres began hunting mages from the other species they knew from the beginning the effort was futile when it came to goblins. So subtle is their magic and so great is its power that to completely purge it would be an absolute impossibility. So these ogres took an approach of containment, hunting goblin mages just as for the other races and contenting themselves when they had to be in hiding and were reluctant to teach it to others lest the secret be exposed. Goblins were quick to understand the situation and behave as the ogres wished, and the secret network of goblin mages would later become the foundation for organizing under the colonialism of the human archmages.

Some of these goblins still wished for a great empire like that of the ogres to return, and many kept their eye on the old ogre ruins for an opening. It was this small secret sect of goblins that began planning the expedition that would create the human archmages, help to form the later resistance network of goblins, ogres, orcs, and indigenous humans, and now after the apocalypse are plotting the ascension of a new great power to hide behind.

Regardless of membership in secret sects, goblins quickly adapt to the human colonial empires and learn how to manipulate them to their own benefit. Though persecution under these regimes can be difficult, goblins find that they can easily lead humans to underestimate them and behave in ways that they wish by declaring wars they always intended to lose and quickly retreat from. Such tactics can help their vulnerable to evade human forces and to preserve the sense that goblins are just silly antagonists rather than any real threat to power. 

This secret order of goblins needs a cool name (The Order of the Second?). Also they are probably like an intelligent, highly cared for elite with hidden generational wealth and resources that other goblins would likely be horrified by and rebel against if they found out about. A tiny organization that’s basically a mini cabal within the larger secret cabal of goblin mages. 

So I think Goblins are feeding empire on all fronts. Their funding new wave ogres that see other species (particularly humans) as being responsible for the environmental collapse rather then them. They also fund the Ogre loyalists when it helps them on their way back into the dirt where they want to be anyway. I think they fund human and orc settlements equally, maybe even aiding in the orcs' defeat of the dragon. Like maybe they provide the intel of where it’s hiding or something. Anyway I think that orcs aren't really built for lasting empires the way humans are in that time period. But the Goblins should give them both ample opportunities, and some orcs should follow. Humans just get there first. 
