---
title: The End of the World
enableToc: 
tags:
  - gdoc
---
The story of the end of the world is the story of Aton and its dragon. It must first be understood just how boundless the dragon’s love for mortals was. The early days of life were harsh, with all caring for themselves and their own, and slaying that which stood in the path of their survival. But around Aton something different happened. We worshiped the land with no thought for the returns it would give us. We planted trees not to eat from but simply to love and cherish. We combed and groomed the hairs of the dragon. We rediscovered what we had lost when we became individuals – True love, selflessness, and care. And the earth itself around us learned these things too.
	So the dragon protected us where it could, but it still had vision greater than our lives, and saw the pain that would be wrought if we did not die, too. Though we loved the dragon, the love for our children trumped the love for our land, and we betrayed the land we had loved so. Saddened as she was, she understood. And one day so did we, as for a time we became her; took on her role. But we, too, lacked foresight. We, too, were blinded by our love for the little things and the desire to watch them thrive and avoid their deaths and suffering. 

Time passed, and we did our best to atone for our crimes, to replant what had been taken and restore the dragon that had cared for us so. Though she was dead and not yet born, she heard and felt our dedication. She knew that even in spite of her betrayal she had not chosen wrong. But while mortals were capable of a love deeper than even the land itself had ever imagined, they were also capable of a deeper cruelty. Countless adventurers came seeking the heart of this burgeoning dragon. All failed, many from lack of might, but too they failed because they failed to understand the nature of the treasure they were seeking to claim. The dragon, dead, unborn, yet still waking and seeing, saw all of this. Saw the cruelty visited upon her custodians by the greedy and ambitious. And she was powerless to do anything.
	And then a visitor came that made it to her and saw her for what she was. He was another ambitious soul, but not one so cruel as the others, who reached her heart with stealth and cleverness rather than violence and cruelty. He snipped a sprig from the ground, knowing that he only needed a little of her to replant within himself and grow that power. Learning her lessons he came to love this dragon just as the ogres had, but with distance he felt not just her sadness and love, but rage at what had been done to her. Rage even at her boundless kindness that had allowed such things to be done to her. He knew too that he would not be the last to find his way to her heart, and that others would reach that place with still more malice and selfishness in their hearts. He set a plan in motion to rebirth her with the proper rage and pride in her heart to strike down any such future cruelty. But the paradox was that first she must see into the depths of the darkness that lurked in their hearts of mortals.

So six were selected to represent the worst of us, to show the dragon what it had truly permitted by allowing us to live and prosper so. Pyrus was our devotion to abstract things at the expense of the real and material. Augusta was our passive acceptance and support of injustice around us. Sorvald was our raw selfishness and greed. Cyrvo was our hypocrisy, a chameleon that donned ideals and beliefs like cloaks as it suited him. Oana was our cruelty and brutality to things not like us and that which we did not understand. And Nyka was meant to be our lies, our ability to tell stories of our sins to suit us and cast us as the heroes. But Nyka alone failed in her role, instead speaking truth through myth. Lutekai was later chosen as a replacement, another perspective on the chaos and destruction our imagination could wreak upon reality. But in a sense he was too little too late, the dragon had at least seen Nyka, and did not give up hope.

The archmages extracted the very heart of the dragon and consumed her, taking with them every piece and nurturing her inside themselves, each new womb for the fetus they had now ripped into seven. The old dead dragon loved us still, but the new one being born was filled with nothing but rage at its own existence and pain. 

The archmages built their kingdoms. With time and bitter experience their humanity eroded, giving way to the versions of themselves that failed their trials in the ruins of Aton. Oana waged a quiet war on the ogres. Pyrus created a great circle to funnel the power of Atnia into his perfect clockwork empire, taming (or so he thought) the chaos of nature to a perfect distilled ideal. Augusta was buffeted by the winds of fate, holding the reins of empire on the seas. Sorvald consumed and consumed, nurturing his own will as the mightiest to behold. Cyrvo continued to twist and play on the hearts of mortals as it suited him, shaping their beliefs for his own power, physically and psychologically waging a war on the divine, slowly and by degrees twisting the gods such that he might assume a position as king of the heavens. Lutekai charged forward out of desperation for his people with reckless abandon, his experiments growing ever greater and more dangerous. And Nyka warned us of all this in our dreams.

None of this could last, just as the first archmage had predicted, by funneling power into the wheels of civilization they would spin faster and faster until they splintered. Oana’s demise came first. By enslaving the ogres and waging war on them she drew their undivided attention, and eventually, inevitably they overthrew her. But by doing so she bought time for Pyrus to place Atnia in a magical stranglehold. Knowing that Atnia would be the heart of a coming calamity if the funneling of power was not stopped, the ogres of Mnem began quietly storming its borders, taking an outpost on an important leyline in the northern mountains. At the same time, The Twilight Isles rebelled. Always the home of The Order of The Second, the people usually tolerated leadership of their various conquerors, but in spite of the protests by the members of The Order that normally kept them passive, the weight of Pyrus’s rule had become too great. The Order had to adapt to the island’s newfound freedom and self government. Missives arrived from the ogres who had conquered Skyhaven in the north seeking an alliance to gain power over a leyline crossing Atnia to perform a spell of sealing.

The death of Oana was a catalyst of fear. Each archmage believed that one of the others had deposed her and incited the ogres, and that it was only a matter of time before the ploy to rule the world came. Their fear manifested in their propaganda, and all shared fear for the archmages. A many armed many eyed creature was born in dream, another mask for the void, a being of raw terror. 

In the meanwhile Augusta stared in horror at the future sprawling before her, paralyzed by the great calamity, the death and destruction that lay around every corner. She could change the course of the future, but in every future was calamity and her own demise. Who could have the right to choose which of these futures would come to pass, to choose the deaths of some and the lives of others?

Lutekai had long been allied with Cyrvo as the two outcasts among the archmages, but had also long since realized that he could not be trusted. For all his chaotic ambition and his seeming abandoned humanity, Lutekai never lost sight of his love for the people of Jespark and his desire for them to thrive. He began to suspect Cyrvo’s ambition to ascend and become a god. He knew too of the great powers that Pyrus and Sorvald played with. He had to do something to prevent these three in particular from achieving their ends, for surely their success would mean the enslavement of all mortals.

Lutekai knew exactly what to do to destroy Pyrus. Though he understood Sorvald’s magic, he never truly understood Sorvald as a person in the same way he understood Pyrus, for he and Pyrus operated under similar logical principles. The only difference was that Lutekai set his imagination on creating the new, while Pyrus sought to order and categorize what was. And in this Lutekai saw the weakness, that Pyrus’s reactions could be predicted. He created a weapon that could level Atnia into dust, leveraging the very power from Pyrus’s defenses. But he was at a loss for how to stop Sorvald and Cyrvo.

In their despair, Augusta and Lutekai both became open to an introspection they had hid from and kept at bay all these years. Finally they heard the cries of Nyka from within their dreams, and they all met there. Augusta told them of the horrible inevitable destruction and her indecision. But this Nyka already knew, and she told Augusta only to try her best. To forget the future and the visions and only to strive to be a person in her latter days worthy of her own respect. Lutekai told them of his fears for what would happen if Sorvald, Pyrus, and Cyrvo were allowed to live much longer, and expressed his hopelessness at defeating all three. Nyka told him that he had set his sights on a task greater than any one man could complete, and that he could not succeed, but at the same time so brilliant was he that he could not fully fail either. She reminded both of them that virtue was not in the succeeding but in the trying, and that though they could never atone for their failings in the past, that they always had the chance to be great in the future.

So Lutekai and Augusta took their shots. Lutekai’s magical missiles tore into Atnia and Lekvia, and Augusta’s assassins found themselves at the edge of Cyrvo’s circle of ascension as he performed the ritual to replace the god Ozen whose supremacy he had stoked the world round with himself. 

Lutekai’s missile hung over the tower in Atnia, fighting with Pyrus’s shields for days and growing in power. The missile fired at Lekvia landed immediately and tore the capital apart, seemingly playing into Sorvald’s hand, but it carried with it a curse, ripping the dragon out of his blood. While Sorvald grew in power after having consumed his nation, he lost the might of an archmage and that power floated into the sky.

Knowing that simply killing Cyrvo might not curb his ascension, Augusta scanned the possible futures to understand how best to prevent his godhood. She had long since learned that the gods were things of dreams, and saw the dream totem that upheld the ritual. As Cyrvo and the realm of the gods were near touching, reaching out to one another through the void she shattered the totem, casting Cyrvo and the whole palace of the gods into the abyss.

And both Lutekai and Augusta fell to Pyrus’s magic, for they had broken the accord of peace between the archmages and suffered the consequences of the treaties they had signed all those years ago. 

As the archmages fell, the parts of the dragon fetus they each had been nurturing sought to return to the center, and found their purchase in the rift created by the battle between Lutekai’s missile and Atnia’s defenses. This dragon truly began to awaken; a being split in two. An old dead dragon that had never truly been allowed to die filled with boundless love for mortals, and a fetus aching in the pain of its own existence filled with boundless hatred for life itself, wishing to never have been born. In its rage the young living dragon funneled its power into the magic ripping Atnia apart channeling Lutekai’s magic into the very leylines beneath the earth.

At the same time the ogres of Mnem in Skyhaven and the new revolutionaries in the Twilight Isle had agreed to work together, using their two leylines to contain the destruction of Atnia and not let it seep to the further leylines outside. The magic that Pyrus had designed to protect Atnia from the outside could easily be reverse engineered to protect the outside world from Atnia. 

And through all of this Nyka began to set in motion her great totems in the land of dream, knowing so much of the world would fall she chose to protect the followers she could, scattering those places that had become totems themselves into the dream realm so they might survive the coming calamity.

In all this the old dead dragon was filled with sadness, she heard The First Archmage’s lesson about the cruelty of mortals loud and clear, but those who would suffer in Atnia were not those who had failed the tests in Aton. They were capable of cruelty but kindness too. And so she tapped into Nyka’s totem. As the matter of Atnia was torn to shreds and a great crater was formed, she sent it piece by piece through the portal of The Nameless City into the land of dream. Perhaps there it would die and pass on, or perhaps, as it had not all died yet in physical form, it could return from the other world and as a whole people the land of Atnia could succeed at the trials that the archmages had failed and bring some great unknown wisdom back from dream. The people of Atnia are pulled between the two forces, their new gods, the twin ancient dead dragon that loves them and newborn living dragon that hates them as it does life itself. 

Bearing the cradle of the world’s magic this pocket dimension in some ways is more real than the world outside, holding infinite potential inside of it, if Atnia were to return to the material plane it might bring with it to reality all the dreams of the world, the wishes and past dredged up inside and remake the world and history itself in the vision created inside. The ogres know this, and so too does the first archmage. 
